# group_3_project_1

In our project we decided to analyze individual stocks within the pharmaceutical sector.  For our hypothetical scenario a client wants to expose his portfolio to the pharmaceutical industry but doesn’t know what stock/s to pick.  Our first consideration was how many securities/stocks to analyze and we came to the conclusion that we should focus on the largest American pharmaceutical companies and therefore we selected the ten pharmaceutical stocks held in the S&P 500 to consider for investment.  We also aimed to visually compare recent (the last 5 years) to the preceding history of the stock in an attempt to differentiate recent performance from longer term performance.  Lastly we wanted to predict future value of the stocks based on linear regression models of all of these stock’s historical performances. 	
	We used alpha advantage API to pull 20+ years of historical pricing data on all 10 of these stocks (with some stocks having shorter histories than others), creating csv files and thus scatter plot representations of the monthly closing prices of each stock.  We then created regression lines for each stock’s scatter plot to predict future performance based on past performance.  This process left us to conclude that CTLT (with a projected 452.4% increase in value based on a 20 year regression projection) was the stock we would recommend based on this parameter.   
	Our group also used line graphs of comparative performance within the last 5 years along with comparative performance of the stock’s preceding history pre(2018).  This was how we would determine whether or not there would be a difference in recommendation between our short-term and long-term analysis.  We found that the greatest difference from start to end of the overall time period was LLY at +$5550.14, for the 2018 and beyond time period was LLY at +$535.19 and for the 2018 and before time period was JNJ at +$46.47.
	The conclusion that we collectively reached was to recommend a diversified portfolio of pharmaceutical stocks to our client.  1. We recommend JNJ based on it’s pre-2018 performance 2. We recommend LLY based on it’s post-2018 performance.  3. We recommend CTLT based on its regression projected increase of 452.4% over the next 20 years.  Because the performance of a particular stock within the marketplace is based on a virtually unlimited number of variables we can never be entirely sure of the predictive nature of our recommendation but this seems to be an interesting precursor to further analysis and experimentation.


